Light travels 18 million times faster than rain.
The Queen is the legal owner of one-sixth of the Earth's land surface.
The name of the first human being in Norse mythology is Ask.
Everybody expected the Spanish Inquisition - they were legally obliged to give 30 days' notice.
Three of Fidel Castro's sons, Alexis, Alexander and Alejandro, are named after Alexander the Great.
The opening lines of Jerome K. Jerome's <em>Three Men In A Boat</em> are: 'There were four of us'.
The human heart pumps enough blood in a lifetime to fill three supertankers.
The word 'time' is the most commonly used noun in English.
10% of all the photographs in the world were taken in the last 12 months.
Between 1838 and 1960, more than half the photos taken were of babies.
The words written on Twitter every day would fill a 10-million-page book.
The average person walks the equivalent of three times around the world in a lifetime.
The world's population spends 500,000 hours a day typing Internet security codes.
The first book ever printed in Oxford had a misprint on the first page: they got the date wrong.
For 100 years, the flag of the tropical Turks and Caicos Islands in the West Indies mistakenly featured an igloo.
46% of American adults believe that the world is less than 10,000 years old.
Beyonce Knowles is an 8th cousin, four times removed, of Gustav Mahler.
Shostakovich wrote his 8th Symphony in a henhouse.
8th January 1835 is the only day in history that the USA had no national debt.
Churchill's secret bunker was in Neasden. It was so horrible he only went there once.
In his first year at Harrow, Winston Churchill was bottom of the whole school.
Leonardo da Vinci worked on the Mona Lisa for 15 years. By the time he died in 1519, he still didn't consider it finished.
When the Mona Lisa was stolen from the Louvre in 1911, one of the suspects was Picasso.
Most diamonds are at least 3 billion years old. There are enough diamonds in existence to give everyone on the planet a cupful.
A burning candle creates 1.5 million tiny diamonds per second.
Under extreme high pressure, diamonds can be made from peanut butter.
The US tax code is four times as long as the complete works of Shakespeare.
Shakespeare, Sir Walter Raleigh and King Charles I all had pierced ears.
Over 100 billion neutrinos pass unnoticed through your head every second.
IKEA is the world's 3rd-largest user of wood and sells 2 billion Swedish meatballs a year.
The world's largest pearl weighs 14 pounds.
On average, American doctors interrupt their patients within 14 seconds.
There are eight times as many atoms in a teaspoonful of water as there are teaspoonfuls of water in the Atlantic.
There are more living organisms in a teaspoonful of soil than there are people on Earth, and a billion times more in a tonne than there are stars in the Milky Way.
Charles Darwin calculated that English soil contained 50,000 worms an acre.
In 1999, Darlington FC acquired 50,000 worms to irrigate their waterlogged pitch. They all drowned.
Three and a half Olympic swimming pools could hold all the gold ever mined in the world.
In 2011, Birds Eye sold 225 billion frozen peas: enough to fill 40 Olympic swimming pools.
If all the Birds Eye waffles sold in a year were stacked up, they would be 474 times higher than Mount Everest.
Edmund Hillary, the first man to climb Everest, was a professional beekeeper. When filling in forms, he always gave his occupation as 'apiarist'.
The 10,000 trillion ants in the world weigh about the same as all the human beings.
If the 5 trillion spiders in the Netherlands took to eating humans rather than insects, they'd consume all 16.7 million Dutch people in just three days.
Biologically speaking, 'bugs' are insects that suck.
Biologists cannot agree on definitions for the words 'species', 'organism' or 'life'.
Behavioural biologists do not agree on what constitutes 'behaviour'.
Anthropologists cannot agree on the meaning of the word 'culture' or on the meaning of the word 'meaning'.
<em>Abulia</em> (n): The inability to make decisions.
<em>Astasia</em> (n): The inability to stand up.
<em>Aprosexia</em> (n): The inability to concentrate on anything.
If all the Lego bricks ever manufactured were clipped on top of each other, they would make a tower ten times as high as the distance to the Moon.
Liechtenstein, the world's 6th-smallest country, is the world's largest exporter of false teeth.
In the 19th and early 20th centuries, having all your teeth removed and replaced with false ones was a popular 21st-birthday present.
London, with a population of over 8,000,000, is not a city, though the City of London, with a population of about 7,000, is.
According to the Forestry Commission, London is 'the largest urban forest in the world'.
In 1894, The Times estimated that by 1950 London would be nine feet deep in horse manure.
The Roman name for Paris was Lutetia , which translates into English as 'Slough'.
In 1811, nearly a quarter of all the women in Britain were named Mary.
In 1881, there were only six men in Britain called Derek.
Only 4 Clives, 13 Trevors and 15 Keiths were born in the UK in 2011.
In 2012, the Advertising Standards Authority ordered a Northampton-based furniture store to stop advertising its prices as 'Sofa King Low'.
Caterpillars make no noises other than chewing - though Phengaris rebeli strums its bottom like a guitar.
Every year, Peruvians eat more than 60 million guinea pigs.
In Switzerland, it is illegal to keep just one guinea pig.
98% of British homes have carpeted floors. In Italy, only 2% do.
In Japan only 2% of adoptions are of children; 98% are adult males aged 25 to 30.
It's unsafe for travellers to rely on 'St Christopher' any more: he was removed from the calendar of saints in 1969.
10% of US electricity is made from dismantled Soviet atomic bombs.
Until 1913, children in America could legally be sent by parcel post.
There are 5.9 calories in the glue of a British postage stamp.
All the batteries on Earth store just ten minutes of the world's electricity needs.
Ancient Greek democracy lasted for only 185 years.
The ancient Greeks had no word for religion.
China is the world's largest supplier of Bibles: one factory in Nanjing prints a million a month.
The dialling code for Russia is 007.
Collectively speaking, humans have spent longer playing World of Warcraft than they have existed as a species separate from chimpanzees (5.93 million years).
<em>Charette</em> (n): An intense flurry of activity to finish something by a deadline.
<em>Muntin</em> (n): The thin strip of wood or metal that divides the panes of glass in a window.
<em>Nikhedonia</em> (n): The pleasurable anticipation of success before any actual work has been done.
<em>Smout</em> (n): A small, unimportant Scottish person.
John Cleese's father's surname was Cheese. Cleese grew up ten miles from Cheddar and his best friend at school was called Barney Butter.
Digestive biscuits have no particular digestive qualities. In the USA it is illegal to sell them under that name.
In 2010, the BBC spent nearly £230,000 on tea, but only £2,000 on biscuits.
Caffeine is made of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen and oxygen: the same as cocaine, thalidomide, nylon, TNT and heroin.
The same man invented heroin and aspirin in the same year: Felix Hoffman, 1897. Heroin was originally marketed as cough medicine.
Worldwide sales of cocaine earn more than Microsoft, McDonald's and Kellogg's combined.
More than 7,000 Americans die each year and 1,500,000 are injured as a result of doctors' bad handwriting.
In 2012, 20% of the world's top 20 snooker players were colour-blind.
If you scaled a snooker ball up to the size of the Earth, it would have mountains three times higher than anything on the planet.
In 1903, its first year of trading, Gillette sold just 168 razor blades.
The first advertising jingles were written down in newspapers; readers were expected to sing them themselves.
There are more than three times as many PR people in America as there are journalists.
Because Tonto means 'stupid' in Spanish, when The Lone Ranger was shown in Latin America, he was called Toro, 'bull'.
On her 120th birthday, Jeanne Calment (1875-1997) the oldest person ever recorded, said, 'I only have one wrinkle and I'm sitting on it'.
The UK retail industry makes £250 million a year from gift cards that no one redeems.
In the 12th century, the Danish army consisted of seven men.
Cardiff has more hours of sunlight than Milan.
Glasgow is twinned with Nuremberg, Bethlehem and Havana. Toasters were banned in Havana until 2008.
The Dyslexia Research Centre is in Reading.
The human brain takes in 11 million bits of information every second, but is only aware of 40.
The water in a blue whale's mouth weighs as much as its entire body.
The United States of America maintains a military presence in 148 of the 192 United Nations countries.
In 1251, Henry III was given a polar bear by the king of Norway. He kept it in the Tower of London, on a long chain so that it could swim in the Thames.
The tadpoles of the South American paradoxical frog are larger than the frog itself.
Historical Catholic clergy include: Bishop Boil, Bishop Boom, Bishop Broccoli, Bishop Bolognese, Bishop Busti, Bishop Butt and Bishop Bishop.
Kuku kaki kakak kakak ku kayak kuku kaki kakek kakek ku is an Indonesian tongue-twister meaning 'My sisters' toenails looked like my grandfathers''.
People in Victorian Britain who couldn't afford chimney sweeps dropped live geese down their chimneys instead.
Gerbils can smell adrenaline but trials in airports showed they couldn't tell the difference between terrorists and people who were scared of flying.
If you drilled a tunnel straight through the Earth and jumped in, it would take you exactly 42 minutes and 12 seconds to get to the other side.
A medium-sized cumulus cloud weighs about the same as 80 elephants.
Fred Baur (1918-2002), the designer of the Pringles can, had his ashes buried in one. Fred is Swedish for 'peace'.
Nobles present at the 8th-century battle of Bravalla between Sweden and Denmark included Hothbrodd the Furious, Thorulf the Thick, Birvil the Pale, Roldar Toe-Joint, Vati the Doubter, Od the Englishman, Alf the Proud and Frosti Bowl.
When customers visited the first supermarkets in the UK, they were afraid to pick up goods from the shelves in case they were told off.
Between 1928 and 1948, 12 Olympic medals were awarded for Town Planning.
On a clear, moonless night the human eye can detect a match being struck 50 miles away.
Harry Houdini could pick up pins with his eyelashes and thread a needle with his toes.
The Sami people of northern Finland use a measure called Poronkusema : the distance a reindeer can walk before needing to urinate.
The Inca measurement of time was based on how long it took to boil a potato.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772-1834) liked to eat fruit while it was still attached to the tree.
On average, most people have fewer friends than their friends have. This is known as the 'friendship paradox'.
<em>Eye-servant</em> (n): One who only works when the boss is watching.
<em>Hemipygic</em> (adj): Having only one buttock; half-arsed.
<em>Marmalise</em> (vb): To give someone a thrashing.
The modern world's first international sporting fixture was a cricket match played in 1844 between Canada and the USA. Canada won by 23 runs.
Baseball - the name and the game - was invented in England in the 1750s.
Baseball legend Babe Ruth always wore a cabbage leaf under his cap to keep his head cool. In South Korea, this is considered unsporting, unless the player has a doctor's note.
James Naismith, a Canadian, invented basketball in Massachusetts in 1891. It was 21 years before it occurred to anyone to cut a hole in the bottom of the basket.
Captain John Smith of Pocahontas fame was the first man to use the word 'awning'.
Aerosmith have made more money from Guitar Hero than from any of their albums.
